# DataScience_Projects_Portfolio
Portfolio Space holding my work on Data-Science projects. 

This repository holds various Machine-Learning and Deep-Learning based projects worked by me on personal and professional grounds. I just love this curiosity developing in me to drive my energy in learning this field and trying to address a real-time situation.

Python as the language has been used and submission is with Jupyter notebooks towards these projects.

## Contents

- ### Deep Learning

	- __NLP__
		- [Sentiment Analysis as Text Classification (NLP) on Reviews for DaVinci Book](https://github.com/niveditphoenix/DataScience_Projects_Portfolio/blob/master/Deep%20Learning%20Projects%20Using%20Tensorflow%20%26%20KERAS/NLP/Sentiment_Analysis_NLP_DaVinci_TensorflowTokenizer_DNN.ipynb): A text-classification project build using Tensorflow Tokenizer and Keras's API through Fully-Connected Dense Layers. Model that is build on train data sets with labelled data is then used to identify Sentiments on test data to be classified either as Positive (1) or Negative (0).
		- [Word Embeddings with gensim using Word2Vec on IMDB Movie Reviews](https://github.com/niveditphoenix/DataScience_Projects_Portfolio/blob/master/Deep%20Learning%20Projects%20Using%20Tensorflow%20%26%20KERAS/NLP/WordEmbedding_Gensim_Word2Vec_IMDB_Movie_Reviews.ipynb): Project with more advanced understanding towards NLP Deep-Learning framework by developing semantic relationships between words. Model that is build to develop embeddings of each word in vocabulary. Later, visualizing these words by plotting them using PCA to know the semantics.
	- __Image Processing__
		- [MNIST Digit Recognition Using CNNs](https://github.com/niveditphoenix/DataScience_Projects_Portfolio/blob/master/Deep%20Learning%20Projects%20Using%20Tensorflow%20%26%20KERAS/Image%20Processing/MNIST_Digit_Recognition_CNN_DL.ipynb): Building a complete CNN Model using Keras on MNIST Dataset holding images with 28x28 = 784 as pixel size of hand-written digits ranging from 0 to 9, net of 10 numbers as 10 classes. Evaluated and classified each image from TEST data-set into these 10 classes using this model.

- ### Machine Learning

	- __Regression__
		- [Diamond Price Prediction](https://github.com/niveditphoenix/DataScience_Projects_Portfolio/blob/master/Machine%20Learning%20Projects%20Using%20Scikit-Learn%20(Various%20Statistical%20Methods)/DiamondPrice_Prediction_RegressionAnalysis_ML.ipynb): Project to build model for predicting Prices of Diamonds based on attributes as Continuous & Categorical (Ordinal perhaps). Evaluation in terms of RMSE & R2-Score as obtained from SKLEARN's Regression Algorithms. Model is trained basis HyperParameter approach using GridSearchCV functionality.
		- [Telecom Churn Prediction](https://github.com/niveditphoenix/DataScience_Projects_Portfolio/blob/master/Machine%20Learning%20Projects%20Using%20Scikit-Learn%20(Various%20Statistical%20Methods)/TelecomChurn_WithAllPlots.ipynb): Project to build model with exhaustive analysis for predicting Churn Rate basis historical telecom Data. Analysis by understanding that how does various factors lead to Churn rate. Factors revolving around different time zone in a day i.e. during day, evening and night. Number of calls made, time spent on calls and rate as applied during this time turned out to be critical factors. Plot base analysis using "distplot" for Univariate analysis, "boxplot, scatterplot" for Bivariate Analysis, "pairplot" for complete outlook. Being binary Classification problem, have applied 3 major different alogos like Logistic Regression, knn & RandomForest. Being huge variance observed in data, Standardization of data is done.
		- [BikeOnRent_Count_Prediction](https://github.com/niveditphoenix/DataScience_Projects_Portfolio/blob/master/Machine%20Learning%20Projects%20Using%20Scikit-Learn%20(Various%20Statistical%20Methods)/BikeShare_WithPlotsAnalysic.ipynb): Analysis done on classic "Bikes_On_Rent" data to predict the counts of number of rents basis historical data gathered on hourly basis across whole day and 4 seasons in an year. Exhaustive Data Visualization using plots on Time-scale like "Line-Plots" to know the pattern of each factor, "distplot", "boxplot", "lmplot". Basis 'Correlation matrix" on these factors, understanding the relevance of each factor. Another regression problem being worked with very simple linear regression and with relevant factors.
		- [Titanic_Survivor_Prediction](https://github.com/niveditphoenix/DataScience_Projects_Portfolio/blob/master/Machine%20Learning%20Projects%20Using%20Scikit-Learn%20(Various%20Statistical%20Methods)/Titanic_Analysis_FeatureImportance.ipynb): Model to understand what factors turned relevant in predicting whether any passenger or staff members would be saved or not basis historical evidence of onboarded people on this grand voyage of "Titanic" which turned biggest disaster of human life on April-14-1912. Analysis evaluated that preference was given to rich class passengers and that too for older woman and to kids. Being another binary classification problem, model covers Decition Trees and Random Forest as applied algorithm with various combinations of hyperparameters. Evaluation is done basis confusion-matrix and ROC (AUC).
